README.md, before:

# gangwaydexdemo
Proof of Concept instructions for OIDC authentication on minikube using gangway/dex

## Goals
- Provide a set of instructions to set up OpenID Connect (OIDC) authentication flow for Kubernetes independent of proprietary tools (e.g. AWS Elastic Loadbalancer) 
- Use [dex](https://github.com/dexidp/dex) and [gangway](https://github.com/heptiolabs/gangway) for auth flow tooling
- Provide example configurations to get up and running quickly
- List helpful resources for setting up and using dex/gangway with Kubernetes

## Resources
### Dex
- Github repo:  https://github.com/dexidp/dex
- "Getting Started" tutorial:  https://github.com/dexidp/dex/blob/master/Documentation/getting-started.md
- Kubernetes authentication through dex:  https://github.com/dexidp/dex/blob/master/Documentation/kubernetes.md
- Dex OIDC config example:  https://github.com/dexidp/dex/blob/master/Documentation/connectors/oidc.md
- Integrating dex in your applications:  https://github.com/dexidp/dex/blob/master/Documentation/using-dex.md
- Dex helm chart:  https://github.com/helm/charts/tree/master/stable/dex
- Example dex config from SUSE CaaSP:  https://github.com/kubic-project/salt/blob/3b2cdb6056112607b139793c07d4c89266aba738/salt/addons/dex/manifests/15-configmap.yaml
### Gangway
- Github repo:  https://github.com/heptiolabs/gangway
- Deployment example with dex:  https://github.com/heptiolabs/gangway/tree/master/docs
- Configuration parameters description:  https://github.com/heptiolabs/gangway/blob/master/docs/configuration.md
- Dex parameter mapping:  https://github.com/heptiolabs/gangway/blob/master/docs/configuration.md
- Alternative gangway/dex tutorial with example configs included:  https://github.com/alexbrand/gangway-dex-tutorial
- Gangway helm chart:  https://github.com/helm/charts/tree/master/stable/gangway
### Minikube
- Github repo:  https://github.com/kubernetes/minikube
- Official docs:  https://kubernetes.io/docs/setup/minikube/
### Other
- Api server access without kubectl proxy:  https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/access-application-cluster/access-cluster/#without-kubectl-proxy

### Notes
- Dex OIDC config http endlpoint:  https://{host}:{port}/dex/.well-known/openid-configuration

## Procedure
(Note that this is a work in progress.  More/better detail to follow.)
### Initial Archtecture
- Kubernetes v1.14.0 (minikube)
- Dex running on host machine (Mac)
  - Makes early testing easier on local host
  - Expect to deploy this to Kubernetes
- Gangway deployed to Kubernetes
### Setup details
- Generate TLS cert/key/CA for communication with dex (may also need to do same for gangway, TBD)
- Pull and build dex on local host:  https://github.com/dexidp/dex/blob/master/Documentation/getting-started.md#building-the-dex-binary
- Fill in details on dex-config.yaml (more info on that later)
- From the root of the dex repo, run dex with the config as a parameter: `./bin/dex serve {path to dex-config.yaml}`
- Check OIDC config with `curl -k https://{dex hostname}:{dex port}/dex/.well-known/openid-configuration`
- Start minikube cluster with OIDC flags:  `minikube start --extra-config=apiserver.oidc-issuer-url=http://{dex hostname}:{dex port}/dex --extra-config=apiserver.oidc-client-id=example-app --extra-config=apiserver.oidc-username-claim=sub --extra-config=apiserver.oidc-groups-claim=groups`
- Fill in details on gangway configs (more info on that later)
- Deploy gangway configs:  from root of this project:  `kubectl apply -f configs/gangway`
- ???
- Profit

Commit message:

Added note about /etc/hosts and TLS SANs

README.md, after:

# gangwaydexdemo
Proof of Concept instructions for OIDC authentication on minikube using gangway/dex

## Goals
- Provide a set of instructions to set up OpenID Connect (OIDC) authentication flow for Kubernetes independent of proprietary tools (e.g. AWS Elastic Loadbalancer) 
- Use [dex](https://github.com/dexidp/dex) and [gangway](https://github.com/heptiolabs/gangway) for auth flow tooling
- Provide example configurations to get up and running quickly
- List helpful resources for setting up and using dex/gangway with Kubernetes

## Resources
### Dex
- Github repo:  https://github.com/dexidp/dex
- "Getting Started" tutorial:  https://github.com/dexidp/dex/blob/master/Documentation/getting-started.md
- Kubernetes authentication through dex:  https://github.com/dexidp/dex/blob/master/Documentation/kubernetes.md
- Dex OIDC config example:  https://github.com/dexidp/dex/blob/master/Documentation/connectors/oidc.md
- Integrating dex in your applications:  https://github.com/dexidp/dex/blob/master/Documentation/using-dex.md
- Dex helm chart:  https://github.com/helm/charts/tree/master/stable/dex
- Example dex config from SUSE CaaSP:  https://github.com/kubic-project/salt/blob/3b2cdb6056112607b139793c07d4c89266aba738/salt/addons/dex/manifests/15-configmap.yaml
### Gangway
- Github repo:  https://github.com/heptiolabs/gangway
- Deployment example with dex:  https://github.com/heptiolabs/gangway/tree/master/docs
- Configuration parameters description:  https://github.com/heptiolabs/gangway/blob/master/docs/configuration.md
- Dex parameter mapping:  https://github.com/heptiolabs/gangway/blob/master/docs/configuration.md
- Alternative gangway/dex tutorial with example configs included:  https://github.com/alexbrand/gangway-dex-tutorial
- Gangway helm chart:  https://github.com/helm/charts/tree/master/stable/gangway
### Minikube
- Github repo:  https://github.com/kubernetes/minikube
- Official docs:  https://kubernetes.io/docs/setup/minikube/
### Other
- Api server access without kubectl proxy:  https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/access-application-cluster/access-cluster/#without-kubectl-proxy

### Notes
- Dex OIDC config http endlpoint:  https://{host}:{port}/dex/.well-known/openid-configuration

## Procedure
(Note that this is a work in progress.  More/better detail to follow.)
### Initial Archtecture
- Kubernetes v1.14.0 (minikube)
- Dex running on host machine (Mac)
  - Makes early testing easier on local host
  - Expect to deploy this to Kubernetes
- Gangway deployed to Kubernetes
### Setup details
- Generate TLS cert/key/CA for communication with dex (may also need to do same for gangway, TBD)
  - Remember to add routes to /etc/hosts in minikube and host machine to satisfy TLS if only hostnames are listed in Subject Alternative Names
- Pull and build dex on local host:  https://github.com/dexidp/dex/blob/master/Documentation/getting-started.md#building-the-dex-binary
- Fill in details on dex-config.yaml (more info on that later)
- From the root of the dex repo, run dex with the config as a parameter: `./bin/dex serve {path to dex-config.yaml}`
- Check OIDC config with `curl -k https://{dex hostname}:{dex port}/dex/.well-known/openid-configuration`
- Start minikube cluster with OIDC flags:  `minikube start --extra-config=apiserver.oidc-issuer-url=http://{dex hostname}:{dex port}/dex --extra-config=apiserver.oidc-client-id=example-app --extra-config=apiserver.oidc-username-claim=sub --extra-config=apiserver.oidc-groups-claim=groups`
- Fill in details on gangway configs (more info on that later)
- Deploy gangway configs:  from root of this project:  `kubectl apply -f configs/gangway`
- ???
- Profit
